hey everybody so my name is Matt and I
am from pinata we are a company
leveraging ipfs or the interplanetary
file system to help a lot of companies
solve a lot of problems they're
experiencing in the web 3 space so we've
learned a lot in the past year we've
been working and we fear to be helpful
to describe a little bit of the use
cases that we're seeing our customers
and what they're encountering when
they're using IP FS to build in their
applications so a little bit of a
background the way that we store and
move data on the Internet is outdated
we've progressed a lot since the early
days of the Internet and we've had we've
had some lessons and we've also
forgotten some lessons so we currently
rely on a cloud infrastructure that
ignores the advantages of peer-to-peer
technologies in the early days of the
web peer-to-peer technologies were
abundantly used they provided a way that
was efficient that can move content
between users of a network but as the
web grew centralized cloud computing
models became much more prevalent they
provided an easier way to deploy a web
infrastructure so companies had to
choose whether they wanted to use the
ease provided by a cloud infrastructure
model or whether they wanted to leverage
the benefits of peer-to-peer technology
unsurprisingly at many companies chose
the path that made things easier and
chose the route of the centralized
clouds but what if we could combine the
best of the cloud and still get the
benefits of peer-to-peer technology and
what I mean by this is making
peer-to-peer technology as easy as using
modern cloud infrastructure we can
totally do this so to do this pinata
uses IP FS it's a new powerful and very
feature-rich peer-to-peer technology
ipfs is usable on almost any device it's
incredibly powerful in that in that
aspect
it lets companies store but also move
data intelligently across servers
desktops mobile devices and even IOT
devices
so IP FS does this and it provides data
integrity through what's called native
immutability this means that
applications can no with absolute
t-that the data they're working with has
not been tampered okay so before
explaining that why apps are leveraging
this movement of data and data integrity
with pinata we need to describe how
these apps are set up and why they're
integrating with us so every use case is
a little bit different and luckily IPF s
is super extensible in that respect our
users are all building with their own
unique IP FS patterns and they're doing
things in their own unique way but they
all have one thing in common they need
stability and they need speed this is
where pinata helps developers can
leverage the benefits of peer-to-peer
technology without having to deal with
the complexities of developing and
maintaining their own custom
infrastructure we make peer-to-peer easy
ok so now that we know kind of what
users are doing and that they have such
different use cases let's learn through
what they've built here's some of the
most prevalent ways that companies on
our platform are leveraging the benefits
of ipfs a common use case is
peer-to-peer messaging so ipfs allows
for new novel ways of securely
communicating across the web developers
use pinata to make sure their users
messages are always available for
retrieval when the users need it most
another use case is web site hosting
this is this was becoming more prevalent
and it's such a cool use case you can
host websites on IP FS in a way that
means that the content users are
retrieving from that web site is
verifiable and it's cryptographically
verifiable a little bit of buzzwords
there that we all like so what this
means is that users can visit a web site
and know that the data they're
retrieving from that web site is what
they're expecting to get and that
they're not being subjected to a
man-in-the-middle attack through our
partnership with CloudFlare we've made
sure that websites on IP FS are both
stable and fast
lastly content delivery this is a super
important use case of IP FS and is one
of the use cases were most passionate
about ipfs allows companies to build
their own on demand or elastic CDN so
when users an applic
patience retrieve content on ipfs they
become providers of that content this
means that the next user that needs that
data is going to get it faster and
because this content is being
distributed by the users themselves
content providers can realize the modern
benefits of CDNs without the massive
massive cost associated with using them
this organic user driven CDN approach
eliminates a massive capital barrier
that many startups in today's world face
when trying to scale their platforms
okay so for users that are looking to
sign up for pinata you can do it pretty
easily just search pinata ipfs and
you'll be taken to our website pretty
easy to sign it up just sign up for free
and what this requires is just putting
in your email address yeah so I don't
have a fake email address on me right
now and we require our users to sign up
and verify their email address so we're
gonna pretend that I'm actually signing
up for the platform when I'm really just
going to be logging in with my own
account
so we'll log in
okay so now we're in the pinata platform
we found that the most effective way to
get our users involved with our
ecosystem is to take them straight to
the documentation most of our customers
are gonna be developers so it makes
sense to send them to the place that
they're probably going to care about the
most
here we talk about what you do with your
API key how you get connected with the
API test to make sure things are working
correctly we provide extensive
documentation on how to do this you can
do it through postman which is a common
UI application that developers use to
test out REST API s and then we also
provide Java Script examples this is a
pattern that's repeated throughout our
documentation and if you don't want to
use the API itself we also provide an
SDK that you can integrate into your
node.js j/s applications okay
so surprisingly a lot of people using
our platform are also not developers
they're people wanting to try out ipfs
for the first time maybe they've learned
hey I can host a website on ipfs that
sounds like fun but I'm not a developer
so we provide an easy way to do that we
have an upload section of the website or
you can come in and you can upload files
you can upload directories which is what
people use when they want to host
websites and also for those of you that
are developers or hosting stuff on ipfs
and you don't really want to go through
the API to get us to save your content
we allow you to just provide us a hash
and then we'll grab it for you and you
can see the progress of that as things
progress so what happens when we upload
stuff we also have what's called a pin
Explorer it's a bunch of tests demo
stuff here but this allows our users to
see what they've pinned and have kind of
an overview of what they're all using
within their application they can see
the total amount of data they've stored
with us the total amount of pins they
can see the size of their individual
files and we also provide a gateway that
allows users to quickly view that
content so say I have a lovely photo of
pinatas in a pasture I want to show it
to my friends I can quickly do that by
clicking on the gateway link
we can quickly allow users to delete
data as well let's say I want to remove
that pinata past your picture I can
remove it
it'll be successfully unpinned from our
nodes and now you are no longer being
charged for us store in that data we
charge our users based on a familiar
cloud model which means that you're
gonna be prorated on what you store if
you only want to store things for a day
that's okay you can store it for a day
delete it and you'll only be charged for
the amount of data that you stored on
that given day you can search for stuff
you can do all sorts of fun features I
won't get into that if you want to learn
more about it I'd recommend just
checking out the website yourself but
that's kind of a quick process of how to
use pinata so we've also seen apps focus
on the immutability aspect of ipfs
blockchain applications are leveraging
ipfs and mass blockchains are really
good at time stamping data but they're
really bad at time stamping a lot of
data store in one photo on a blockchain
it would cost thousands of dollars and
it's not really possible to do all at
once so how do you get around this with
ipfs you can leverage the immutable
tamper-proof
nature and how ipfs signs its content to
basically time stamp content without
actually putting all of that content on
the blockchain itself blockchain
applications are able to use IP FS as a
data storage layer that can scale their
applications to near infinite amounts of
data storage some of the most powerful
use cases we've seen here involve using
IP FS to create what's known as a layer
2 for modern block chains this helps
block chains overcome many of the
scalability features that they're
currently facing and helps drive
usability and user experience in the
blockchain space next scientific data so
scientific communities create a lot of
data and it all needs to be recorded but
most importantly this data that needs to
be verifiable and also it needs to be
shared amongst the scientific community
applications are being built that allow
scientific collaborators to share their
data with each other throughout the
world
the way that ensures data integrity
something that's crucial to the
scientific community so I haven't
mentioned one of the most valuable
features of ipfs a side effect of the
way that ipfs handles data is that when
data is repeated it doesn't take up more
disk space what this means is that with
IOT devices this becomes really powerful
because IOT readings often consist of
thousands to millions of records that
are often repeated applications using IP
FS can reduce their storage requirements
down to a fraction of what was
previously required so these are some of
the most interesting use cases we've
seen from users building on our platform
today and we're excited to see what they
continue to build in the future so that
being said come build with us at pinata
cloud we're excited to have you as a
customer